# Talking Without Speaking

by natsinator

http://archiveofourown.org/works/27020431

## Summary

When Oskar von Reuenthal enrolls at the Imperial Officers' Academy, he doesn’t expect to make real friends. The IOA is a competitive place, and Reuenthal has never been well liked. But when a foreign student shows up to challenge him for the top spot in the class, Reuenthal can’t look away.

——————

“Why do you have such an interest in me? You’ve been staring at me since the day we arrived," Leigh said.

“So has everybody else.”

“You know what I mean.”

Reuenthal was afraid that he did. Or, not afraid precisely, but surprised to acknowledge that his thoughts about Leigh stretched back, in some form, to before, even, than the brief moment they had spoken in the hallway outside the practicum where they had faced each other. Reuenthal had seen Leigh at the convocation dinner, seen his head tilted back to the ceiling, seen his throat bared— vulnerable— and thought, “So, this is the number two.”

“Isn’t it only natural for me to have an interest in my direct competition?”

——————
This is part one \(ish?\) of a very involved roleswap AU. You can read either this work, Speaking in Tongues, or Life out of Balance first.

Some elements of canon are respected. Some are not.

## Notes

Happy birthday Em @softboypassing\! You put this worm in my brain. Hope you enjoy lol

\[granted, if you still wanted to write your own take on this, maybe DON’T read this, and we can trade haha. is this work even canon to my own AU? who knows. who cares. :p \]

\-\-\-

That which is crooked cannot be made straight, and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.
**Ecclesiastes 1:15**

